The 20th century world has experienced an information explosion,
an explosion that actually began long ago.
To the making of many books, there is no end.
Stated King Solomon of Old,
there is an almost limitless supply of knowledge
on practically every subject imaginable.
Sophisticated technology and stacks of cleverly written books
continue to fail in solving mankind's most basic problems.
The vast storehouse of human knowledge
has not united people in peace.
Why?
Because mankind has turned its back on the most important wisdom
to be found anywhere, the wisdom of our creator, Jehovah God.
How fitting them, that divine teaching was selected as a theme
for a series of special international conventions
in Jehovah's Witnesses held around the world.
What brings individuals and families
from so many different countries together
in unity and peace?
To be further instructed in divine wisdom,
as the Bible foretold at mychach 4 and verse 2.
Many nations will certainly go and say,
come your people,
and let us go up to the mountain of Jehovah.
And he will instruct us about his ways.
We are to acquire true wisdom
and really benefit from divine teaching.
We must have acurban tayi matano.
Many questions come to mind.
Who attend?
What do they learn?
How do they personally benefit from divine teaching?
First of all, we were the international conventions held.
Johannesburg, South Africa,
Manila, the Philippines, Santiago,
Chile, Nairobi, Kenya, Hong Kong,
Bogota, Colombia.
Who attend the international divine teaching conventions?
The Tonguanas live in Petersburg, South Africa.
They begin each morning with a Bible text.
Although both are over 80 years old,
they are still very active
with special pioneer ministers in the preaching work.
The Suriano family lives in Manila, the Philippines.
This family of eight also starts each day with a Bible text.
They attribute their happy family life
to their applying Bible principles.
The Kavungi family lives in Catali, Kenya,
in an apartment attached to the Kingdom Hall.
The children are regular pioneer ministers.
Parents, special pioneers.
The one family resides in the bustling metropolis of Hong Kong.
They appreciate divine teaching as the best wisdom anywhere
for making family life happy.
Well, ten more days before we leave for the United States.
The fun of Estes and family lives in Johannesburg, South Africa.
They rely on practical wisdom from the Bible to stay united and happy.
Keeping the lines of communication open between parents and children is always a challenge.
But it helps keep this family united in faith.
Where Elisha is attending this piece,
she says,
good up your loins,
take this flask of oil in your hand,
and go to Raymouth Gilead.
Good up your loins,
and take this flask of oil in your hand,
and go to Raymouth Gilead.
When you have come in there, see Gigi,
the son of Johannes of Ben,
the son of Namjidev.
The mentors live in Fakata Diva, Colombia.
The convention in Bogota is very special to them,
as all five will symbolize their dedication to God by baptism.
International conventions were held on five continents,
and were heard by hundreds of thousands of people.
All conventions sessions are free.
No collections ever taken.
Besides the local populace,
foreign delegates representing 64 countries attend.
What brings people from so many countries?
They agree with King David's plea at Psalm 143 verse 10.
Teach me to do your will.
God's will touches our lives today,
and can shape out tomorrow's.
God also tells us what the future holds.
Knowledge like that can protect and unite us
and our families right now,
and can also direct us to future blessings.
The Bible is our record of God's superior wisdom.
From the first talk on the convention program to the last,
the Bible was featured.
Is the source of the best teaching anyone can receive?
Enhance Jehovah's instruction is divine teaching,
and this is true in the sense that only Jehovah possesses absolute wisdom.
Another triumph of divine teaching is that he gives those
who accepted a real purpose in life.
Divine teaching springs from Jehovah God,
who is described, but I say,
4610 as the one telling from the beginning, the final.
And remember, the choice of these teachings you hear is manifested,
not so much by what you say, but by your actions.
To make sure all are unitedly instructed by Jehovah,
selected talks at each location underlaven simultaneously
in up to 16 languages.
The differ around the world or not have a look.
Divine teaching unites them with a worldwide brotherhood.
Who are the speakers on the four-day program?
Representatives from many of them more than 100 watched our branches,
traveling ministers, and qualified witnesses from local congregations.
The subjects covered range from Bible prophecy to how families can be happily united.
Our spiritual health can be taken care of by submitting to healthful teachings.
Practical counsel from the Bible is presented for young and old,
whether single or married.
Two-to-life demonstrations, as well as discussions and interviews,
show how various ones are meeting the challenge of living as Christians in today's world.
Experiences from the Daunted All Ministry also presented.
I started pioneering in 1938 when I was 18 years old.
Even in the face of stormy weather,
crowds remain and pay attention.
Arranging for a series of international conventions requires careful planning,
Brooklyn, New York.
At the World Headquarters of Jehovah's Witnesses,
plans for the international conventions began years in advance.
Which sites would be the most desirable?
How many persons would they hold?
What about rooming availability for thousands of foreign delegates?
What would be the convention theme?
To coordinate with officials in each convention country,
committees of local witnesses are appointed.
As convention dates approach, witnesses by the thousands volunteer their time and energy
to prepare the stadiums.
An official in Kiev said,
the stadium has not been cleaned this well for 13 years.
In Kiev, 70 sisters worked over a two-week period,
making thousands of flowers by hand to decorate the stage.
A policeman they're exclaimed,
what are people?
It's like being in a new world.
I simply cannot understand why you people were persecuted.
As convention dates get closer,
final construction, stage assembly and decorations are completed.
In Kiev, witnesses from several Eastern European countries
put their skills and energy into constructing 100 temporary toilets.
Because of the intense sun in Santiago,
local brothers designed, assembled and erected an enormous shade canopy.
322,000 square feet of screen material was required,
along with 15,000 feet of rope and cable.
All this work is done in order to make the attending delegates more comfortable
and must better able to take in divine teaching.
13 tons of sound equipment arrived by truck from Germany to Moscow and Kiev.
40 volunteers worked to install it.
At Kiev, 350 loudspeakers and 12 miles of wiring are required
to handle translation of talks into 16 different languages.
The sound for each language is thus directed to each group of delegates.
Most of the thousands of foreign delegates arrive by European.
In Bogota, Colombia, 79 separate flights bring delegates from 31 countries.
Officials there issue special tourist visas to all delegates
and expedite their luggage through customs.
Jehovah's Witnesses are easily identified by their distinctive blue
divine teaching badges.
Volunteers at hospitality desks welcome and assist arriving delegates.
Commercial tour companies arrange for transfers of passengers and luggage to hotels.
Other forms of transportation are used by witnesses within each country
for travel to the convention city.
At the train station in Kiev, Ukrainian witnesses greet arriving delegates.
In Colombia, some congregations charter buses
so that all can travel together.
Where do you arriving delegates stay?
Most are taken to hotels, pre-arranged by commercial tour companies.
Most of the 50,000 witnesses coming to Kiev stay in hotels and private homes,
but about 1,800 stay on six large boats.
A housekeeper left a note for the witnesses.
It reads,
it seems to me that you've come from another planet.
You have so much harmony that you bring a blessing.
The arrival of delegates on the first morning of an international convention
of Jehovah's Witnesses is a happy occasion.
In Kiev, some 53,000 delegates use mass transit to arrive at the convention.
In Santiago, local brothers come early to greet visitors from other lands.
In Kiev, please provide an escort for 135 buses
transporting foreign delegates to and from the stadium.
There is more than the abundance of spiritual food.
Many hardworking volunteers prepare and distribute lunches.
One newspaper correspondent commented,
noticeable that your convention is the considerable number of young people.
They're kind, good-looking and well-behaved.
How do you do it?
A scripture that sees fulfillment during the lunch breaks is Psalm 133.1.
Look how good and how pleasant it is for brothers to dwell together in unity.
In Kiev, foreign delegates bring extra food and clothing
to leave as gifts for the Ukrainian brothers,
hard hit by difficult economic times.
A highlight of conventions of Jehovah's Witnesses is the release of new publications.
Tiny Bible study aids designed to increase our knowledge of God and His purposes.
In this new brochure entitled The Purpose of Life.
In Moscow and in Kiev, a new brochure entitled,
what is the purpose of life?
How can you find it?
It's released in both the Russian and Ukrainian languages.
In this new brochure entitled, what is the purpose of life?
In Hong Kong, the new brochure is released in Chinese.
In Manila, it is released in Tagalog.
And they Tagalog languages.
For 1990, we got the video cassette Jehovah's Witnesses, the organization.
In Hong Kong, the video cassette Jehovah's Witnesses, the organization behind the name,
is released in Mandarin and in Cantonese.
This is one in Chinese.
This brings the total to 27 languages released for this particular video.
It is a pleasure to announce the release in the Russian language
of this fine publication My Book of Bible Story.
Children also vitally need divine teaching.
Men at Kiev receive a release of My Book of Bible Stories.
He loves small children.
Look how Jesus took this small boy.
The visible Jesus is a real son.
The men who watch this watch the rest of the Jesus.
And what is it now? They say Jesus. Let's find out.
Russian and Ukrainian Witnesses, no longer under ban,
will be assisted in public speaking by the release
Theocratic Ministry School God Book.
A big step in learning divine teaching has taken
when people are able to read the Bible in their own language.
We are pleased to announce that the Tagalog New World Translation
in Manila, Bible's containing the New World Translation
of the Christian Greek Scriptures,
are released in Subwana, Iloka and Tagala languages.
The modern day history of the witnesses
is detailed in the new publication, Jehovah's Witnesses,
Proclamers of God's Kingdom.
It is released in a total of 20 different languages
with translation and publication underway for 13 more.
In Johannesburg, Delhi gets out delighted to receive two releases
in nine local languages.
As Jesus himself stated at Matthew 5.3,
happy are those conscious of their spiritual need.
Conventions also include dramas as a means of instruction.
Two are presented on the four-day program.
One drama was entitled, Do Not Be Misled or mock God.
The other, youths who remember the creator now,
shows the benefits of teaching a child godly wisdom.
I have already wanted to use the New World Translation
which you, me and Anna,
Mariah Kwanza, Alyona Kanamu, Neurofiki,
Sanana, Atalikokita, Basamu, Alpufunguam, Langu.
Just look at me.
I have served less than a month in my own means.
Look at me.
I have become a sign for less than a month,
and I am talking to the rendering.
Do you know me?
This is asking Atas to give my life.
Look at me.
I have served less than a month in my own means.
It means you have to give up.
I don't know what to do with my own business.
Foreign delegates have opportunities
to visit sites of local interest.
Sites seeing by boat is popular in Kiev.
One tour guide said, usually when I lead a group,
its disunity becomes manifest as soon as it leaves the airport.
This has not been true of Jehovah's Witnesses.
In Johannesburg, many delegates tour the original site of a South African gold mine.
What is a tour without shopping?
Delegates from the Hong Kong Convention visit China.
Delegates and Kenya keep their cameras busy while on safaris and nearby game-box.
In many convention countries, delegates tour Watchtower branch facilities.
The South Africa branch has a large translation team.
They translate literature into 15 languages and print in 27.
Toures also include branches in Hong Kong and Santiago, Chile.
In Manila, some delegates arrive at the branch in Jeepneys
and are welcomed with refreshments.
The new branch in Colombia sits 9,000 feet up in the Andes Mountains.
Over a two-day period, 6,700 visitors to the Convention and Bogota tour the complex.
Baptism is one of the most exciting and significant parts of conventions.
It is public evidence of the powerful effects of divine teaching.
It is not a spur of the moment in emotional decision.
All candidates have studied the Bible at length with Jehovah's Witnesses
and understand it well.
They have gone over a series of Bible questions with congregation elders
and made a prayerful resolve to serve God forever.
Candidates stand before the assembled crowds and answer yes to two questions.
On the basis of the sacrifice of Jesus Christ,
have you repented of your sins and dedicated yourself to Jehovah to do his will?
Do you understand that your dedication and baptism identify you as one of Jehovah's Witnesses?
Do you remember the word Jesus Christ?
Yes.
Is it the word Jesus Christ?
You are allowed at firmet advances,
indicate that you are ready and qualified for Christian baptism.
The masses of newly baptized witnesses,
remind us of the Apostle John's remarkable vision
recorded in the 7th chapter of Revelation, verse 9.
I saw and look, a great crowd which no man was able to number
out of all nations and tribes and peoples and tongues.
The baptism in Kiev is a high point of the divine teaching international conventions.
The crowd continues to applaud during the two and a half hours
it takes to baptize the 7,402, an all-time record
for baptism of Jehovah's Witnesses at a single convention.
The largest recorded mass baptism of true Christians ever,
with 60 baptizers and six pools,
the equivalent of a good-sized congregation is immersed every two minutes.
Another unifying factor of international conventions
is the opportunity to visit with witnesses from other lands.
Seeing all nationalities united by divine teaching
reminds us of the words at Micah 212.
In unity I shall set them, like a flock in the pen,
they will be noisy with men.
Unity means that all races live in harmony with one another.
The Apostle Peter stated at Acts 10-34 and 35,
for a certainty I perceive that God is not partial,
but in every nation the man that fears him and works righteousness
is acceptable to him.
A reporter for the Democratic Ukraine newspaper wrote,
this convention showed that the achievement of peace
and harmony among people of different nationalities
and from various countries is rarely possible.
Millions today bear living testimony
to the power of God's Word,
to conquer even racial and ethnic prejudice.
A united brotherhood is unique in the strife torn world.
Jesus described an identifying mark of his true followers,
from 1335.
By this all will know that you are my disciples
if you have loved among yourselves.
What accounts for such unity?
People of every background are coming to know Jehovah
as the only true God and are changing their lives
to conform with his righteous ways.
The evening Kiev newspaper reported,
Jehovah's Witnesses are united,
not only by blue badges with divine teaching written on them,
but by true faith.
The love among Jehovah's Witnesses forms a perfect bond of union
that also extends to others around the globe.
Jesus prophesied at Acts 1-8,
you will be witnesses of me to the most distant part of the earth.
And they are mine.
Millions of Jehovah's Witnesses living in 231 countries
are united in telling their neighbors about God's Kingdom,
using more than 200 different languages to do so.
Which reads,
but the meek ones themselves will persist in earth.
They devote more than one billion hours a year
to spreading the good news to their neighbors.
It is faith in Jehovah and his word the Bible
that leads to such remarkable unity of purpose.
Uh-huh.
The wong strengthen the unity by studying the new purpose of life brochures of family
and by applying what they learn.
The entire Pentor family is now baptized
and united in Jehovah's Service.
I would like you to be with the artist.
Yes, I would like to say more to others.
The mountains and the hills themselves will become cheerful before you.
And the very trees of the field will all clap their hands.
A happy, united human family is not a dream.
An elderly witness at the Kiev Convention sums it up this way.
We are all one, united through the divine teaching of Jehovah God.